add app management section (#1704)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/advanced/gitops/apps/automatic_updates_appcr.md

---
linkTitle: Enable automatic updates in Apps
title: Enable automatic updates in Apps
description: Learn how to enable and configure automatic updates in Apps deployed using GitOps.
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    identifier: advanced-gitops-apps-automatic-update
    parent: advanced-gitops-apps
last_review_date: 2023-02-10
user_questions:
  - How can I enable and configure auto update for apps deployment with GitOps?
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-honeybadger
---

# Enable automatic updates of an existing App

> Follow the below instructions to tell Flux to automatically update an existing App. Automatic update means that Flux will scan a remote repository for you and automatically update your deployed application version while also creating commits in your repository to reflect these changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the below instructions to instruct Flux on how to automatically update an existing App. Automatic update means Flux will scan a remote repository and automatically update your deployed application version while also creating commits in your repository to reflect these changes.
```

Configuring automated version updates requires a few additional Flux API objects to be defined, namely:

- `ImageUpdateAutomation`, which defines the core update properties, like the git repo where the commits are to be made, commit messages structure and how to update files in the repository,
- `ImageRepository` to configure where images are stored and new versions can be detected,
- `ImagePolicy` to configure which of the detected new tags will be considered as possible to update to.
- Additionally, you have to edit your existing App manifest to include a marker showing the manifest's property you want to have auto updated by Flux (usually App version property).

Flux will watch for new Docker image tags for your App and use them to update the `.spec.version` field in the App CR. It will do it by pushing commits to this repository.

> **Note**, in order to use this mechanism you have to make sure that image tags of your App corresponds to its version, otherwise this process will result in setting meaningless version in the `.spec.version` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**__Note__**, in order to use this mechanism you have to make sure that image tags of your App correspond to its version, otherwise this process will result in setting a meaningless version in the `.spec.version` field.
```

## Example

An example of an App automated updates is available in the [gitops-template repository in "WC_NAME/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates"](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template/tree/main/management-clusters/MC_NAME/organizations/ORG_NAME/workload-clusters/WC_NAME/mapi/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates/).

## Export environment variables

> **Note**, Management Cluster codename, Organization name, Workload Cluster name and some App-related values are needed in multiple places across this instruction, the least error prone way of providing them is by exporting as environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**__Note__**, Management Cluster codename, Organization name, Workload Cluster name and some App-related values are needed in multiple places across this instruction, the least error prone way of providing them is by exporting them as environment variables:
```

          branch: main
      update:
        path: ./management-clusters/${MC_NAME}
        strategy: Setters
    EOF
    ```

1. Leave `automatic-updates` directory and go into the App directory:

    ```nohighlight
    cd ../apps/${APP_NAME}
    ```

1. Create the [ImageRepository CR](https://fluxcd.io/docs/components/image/imagerepositories/) to configure registry to
scan for new tags:

    ```nohighlight
    cat <<EOF > imagerepository.yaml
    apiVersion: image.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: ImageRepository
    metadata:
      name: ${APP_NAME}
      namespace: default
    spec:
      image: ${APP_IMAGE_REGISTRY}
      interval: 1m0s
    EOF
    ```

1. Create the [ImagePolicy CR](https://fluxcd.io/docs/components/image/imagepolicies/) with rules for tags selection:

    ```nohighlight
    cat <<EOF > imagepolicy.yaml
    apiVersion: image.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: ImagePolicy
    metadata:
      name: ${APP_NAME}
      namespace: flux-system
    spec:
      imageRepositoryRef:
        name: ${APP_NAME}
      filterTags:
          extract: \$version
          pattern: ^v?(?P<version>.*)$
      policy:
        semver:
          range: '>=0.0.1'
    EOF
    ```

>     **Note**, the `filterTags` is processed first and gives opportunity to filter the image tags before they are considered by the policy rule. Here, it is used to skip the heading `v` in version upon passing it to the policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **__Note__**, the `filterTags` is processed first and gives the opportunity to filter the image tags before they are considered by the policy rule. Here, it is used to skip the heading `v` in the version upon passing it to the policy.
```

# Enable automatic updates of an existing App

Follow the below instructions to instruct Flux on how to automatically update an existing App. Automatic update means Flux will scan a remote repository and automatically update your deployed application version while also creating commits in your repository to reflect these changes.

Configuring automated version updates requires a few additional Flux API objects to be defined, namely:

- `ImageUpdateAutomation`, which defines the core update properties, like the git repo where the commits are to be made, commit messages structure and how to update files in the repository,
- `ImageRepository` to configure where images are stored and new versions can be detected,
- `ImagePolicy` to configure which of the detected new tags will be considered as possible to update to.
- Additionally, you have to edit your existing App manifest to include a marker showing the manifest's property you want to have auto updated by Flux (usually App version property).

Flux will watch for new Docker image tags for your App and use them to update the `.spec.version` field in the App CR. It will do it by pushing commits to this repository.

> **__Note__**, in order to use this mechanism you have to make sure that image tags of your App correspond to its version, otherwise this process will result in setting a meaningless version in the `.spec.version` field.
> 
> ## Example
> 
> An example of an App automated updates is available in the [gitops-template repository in "WC_NAME/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates"](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template/tree/main/management-clusters/MC_NAME/organizations/ORG_NAME/workload-clusters/WC_NAME/mapi/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates/).
> 
> ## Export environment variables
> 
> **__Note__**, Management Cluster codename, Organization name, Workload Cluster name and some App-related values are needed in multiple places across this instruction, the least error prone way of providing them is by exporting them as environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note__: in order to use this mechanism you have to make sure that the image tags of your App correspond to its version, otherwise this process will result in setting a meaningless version in the `.spec.version` field.

## Example

An example of an App automated update is available in the [gitops-template repository in "WC_NAME/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates"](https://github.com/giantswarm/gitops-template/tree/main/management-clusters/MC_NAME/organizations/ORG_NAME/workload-clusters/WC_NAME/mapi/apps/hello-world-automatic-updates/).

## Export environment variables

__Note__: Management Cluster codename, Organization name, Workload Cluster name and some App-related values are needed in multiple places across this instruction, the least error prone way of providing them is by exporting them as environment variables:
```
